      Company Logo




WAREHOUSE TRAINING PACKET




                            1/21
                                                     Contents



                         Warehouse Training Packet
                               Table of Contents

Part I: Purpose

1. Purpose of Warehouse Training Packet
2. Summary: Common Errors and Preventions


Part II: Receiving. Storing. Shipping
3. Receiving of Freight
4. Packaging of Parts
5.    Storing of Parts
6. Warehouse Location System
7. Mezzanine Storage
8. Packing and Shipping

Part Ill: Ordering, Returns

9. Stock Order Processing
10. Order Filling
11. Parts Returns

Part IV: Inventory Counts
12. Inventory Counts

Part V: Maintenance
     . Warehouse Housekeepir

  1. Personal In rovement Maintenan
Part VI: Safety

16. Warehouse Safety
17. General Safety Practices

Attachments: (copies of policies and procedures)




                                                         2/21
                                                                                    Part I: Purpose


                         1. Purpose of Warehouse Training Packet

Purpose: The role of the warehouse personnel has a direct impact on several key elements of
             business:


   • Assist in managing one of the largest assets of              spare parts inventory.The task
       we perform, and the accuracy of all that we do, contributes to the credibility of the parts
       inventory.
   • Providing exceptional customer service through timely, and accurately, perform the
       various warehouse responsibilities. Our customers rely on the availability our spare parts
       to keep their machines operating. The accuracy of our inventory builds confidence in our
       ability to serve our customers.
   • Efficiency within the company is gained through everyone doing their area of
       responsibilities accurately and timely.
   •

 Therefore this training packet has been prepared to assist you in gaining some of the skills needed
to perform your warehouse responsibilities. This document cannot cover all the various tasks, so
 please don't hesitate to visit with your supervisor regarding any question that may arise.


                           2. Common Errors and Preventions

Common errors involving warehouse operations typically are related too:

   • Timely process of documentation- Parts inventory management requires the timely
       processing all activities related to storing, stocking, shipping, counting of the inventory,
       and processing of the documentation.
   • To avoid the common errors it is important to understand the impact the task has on
        managing the parts inventory, follow the required instructions, and ask for assistance for
       those areas that you are not familiar in handling.




                                                                                               3/21
                                                             Part I: Receiving, Storing, Shipping


                                  3. Receiving of Freight

 Receiving of freight is the beginning point of spare parts inventory management. The following
information is critical to the processing of incoming freight:

• Incoming freight is to be unloaded and inspected for damages and shortages before signing
    the manifest. Any damages should be noted on the manifest. The proper procedure for filing
    a freight claim should be followed based on the carrier's guidelines. Timeliness and proper
    documentation is critical to assist in processing the claim. Taking of photos can be very
    helpful in noting and settling of claims.

• Instructions and communication with the delivery drivers that all trucks need to have wheels
    chocked for safety. NO EXCEPTION

• Freight is to be put in the designated area for sorting between stock and emergency orders.

• Stock orders are checked and put in proper locations within 24 hours after receiving.
• Emergency orders are to be checked in 2 hours after receiving for customers and shop orders
    that are pending. Freight charges are then determined and added to shop and customer orders.

• Paperwork is given to Inventory Analyst to input in the computer system to update the
    inventory on hands.

 The proper packing slips for Emergency orders to be shipped to the shop, and custom
      estinations, are printed and attached to the shipmer

• Daily all incoming and outgoing paperwork is to be filed in the appropriate folders for future
    reference.

• Air shipments consists of the following: UPS and FEDEX


• Shipments arito us bedone ando end to the are granites received with the




                                                                                            4/21
                                                           Part II: Receiving, Storing. Shipping

                                  4. Packaging of Parts
It is important to use caution while handling parts with various types of packaging. Therefore
caution must be used to properly identify the various types of packaging and the proper method
of handling each.

• Multiple packaged parts- Parts that are a greater number than 1 in package. For example a
     package includes a quantity of 10, but sold as individual units
• Parts packed in sets- Parts that consist of two or more identical pieces that make QTY 1 se
    For example 2 brake shoes make one set.
• Parts packed in kits-Consists of multiple parts and quantities to make 1 kit. For example, 1
    cylinder seal kit consists of several parts to create the kit:

                     Seal bearings

                     Seals
                     Oil bearings

All these parts are used to reseal/rebuild one hydraulic cylinder.

Prevent improper stocking of parts by:

• Never overstock parts in a location. If the location is not large enough, re-locate the parts to a
    location that will accommodate the additional inventory.
• Use caution when placing parts on the shelf as to the proper part number, quantity, and
    package quantity. This will assist in maintaining inventory accuracy, and speed up the order
    filling process.




                                                                                              5/21
                                                             Part I: Receiving, Storing. Shipping


                                        5. Storing of Parts

Storage space in a warehouse is in most cases limited, and the most efficient use of space is
critical.


• Stacked cartons should plainly display the part number. This will allow for quicker filling of
    the order and support an order free of pulling errors.
• Avoid stocking of multiple parts in the same location. When this occurs make sure the parts
    are dissimilar to assist in avoiding a pulling error.
• Each bin location should be clearly marked with the correct part number. Bin labels that have
    become damage, partially missing, or worn should be replaced.
• When storing parts outside make sure the carton is weather proof to the level to protect the
    parts inside the carton. Moisture due condensation can cause rust and damage to parts stored
    inside closed crates, or cartons.

The following information applies to the proper stocking of parts:




     are utilized before pulling from the permanent location.




    in package quantity.

Prevent improper stocking of parts by:

• Never overstock parts in a location. If the
    location is not large enough, have the
    location changed.
 • Never overload wire baskets or shelves
 • Make sure the part number and descriptior
    match the part being stocked.
• Do not remove the protective packaging
     material from parts being protected from
    rusting, dirt, and weather conditions.
• Parts with machine surfaces should be stored
    and handled in a manner that protects the
    surfaces from damage.




                                                                                                6/21
                                                           Part I: Receiving, Storing, Shipping


                             6. Warehouse Location System

Each warehouse has a layout based on the type and size of parts being inventoried. Each new
employee will become familiar with the proper layout of the warehouse and assist in the proper
stocking of parts that will support location system that is in place.

To assist in becoming familiar with the location system:
   • All aisle should be properly marked and easy to identify
   • Sections within a row should be clearly marked to assist in determining the proper
      location.

Any questions regarding the proper stocking of parts need to be referred to the Parts/Warehouse
Supervisor.




                                                                                           7/21
                                                         Part I: Receiving, Storing, Shipping


                                   7. Mezzanine Storage

The use of mezzanine storage will be intended for lighter, slower moving inventory, or for
storage of supplies, packing and carton storage.

• The cleanliness of the mezzanine areas will be maintained to the same high stands as the
    main warehouse. All shelves will be free of dust and organized in accordance with the other
    warehouse standards and practice.
• All weight limitations will be clearly marked and followed based the limitations that are
    identified.




                                                                                              8/21
                                                           Part I: Receiving, Storing, Shipping


                                  8. Packing and Shipping

Our professionalism is evident to our customers in many ways, one is the appearance of how we
package and ship parts. If the customer doesn't receive all the parts they ordered, or the order is
incorrect, the image of           can be negatively impacted.

• Each part will be plainly marked or tagged that identifies the part number and quantity being

• Clean boxes and packaging will be used for parts shipped to our customers. We will display
   a high level of quality and professionalism in all shipments.
• Cut off times for the various shippers must be known to insure timely order processing and
    meeting the shipping cut off times.
• Do not over pack a carton in a manner that can cause a safety hazard, or makes difficult for
    the customer to handle the package. Each individual has different limitations on what can
    lifted and carried. In general the weight of any one carton should not exceed 50 pounds.
    This can vary based on the size, shape, and demission on the part.




                                                                                               9/21
                                                                       Part I!!: Ordering, Returns


                                 9. Stock Order Processing

Processing of the stock orders is a critical step in providing the proper parts at the proper time to
the customer. The goal is to have all stock ordered received to be on the shelf and the on hands
current within 8 hours after receipt.

The following picture is of a vendor's pick tag:

Warehouse Responsibilities:
• Location- Bin location the part is to be placed. It may help to expedite the complete stock
    order by sorting the parts by bin location prior to putting stock on the shelf.
• Part Number- This number represents the vendor's part number, and it should be verified
    against other parts on the shelf and the bin tag associated with the bin location.
• Pick Oty- Represents the number of pieces associated with the part number for a specific
    stock order. This quantity should be verified with the parts received on the stock order. If the
    quantity does not match the description on the packing list and give to the Parts Manager.
• Description- The description on the tag should be matched to the physical to insure the
    proper part has been received. For example, if the tag description is bearing, and what we
    have received are bolts a claim discrepancy has been identified. Note the discrepancy on the
    packing list and give to the Parts Manager.

• Item - Identifies the item number on the packing list. This allows for a quick check against
    the packing list.

• Once the parts have been compared to the packing list, and placed on the shelf, give the
    packing list and noted discrepancy to the Parts Manager.




                                                                                                10/21
                                                                    Part III: Ordering. Returns

                                       10. Order Filling

Need to complete


Establishing priority of filling orders based on the information on the document.
List the important elements of filling the order

• May show copy of document
• Parts are listed in location sequence
• How are parts to be tagged, bagged, marked
• Where are orders placed once filled (Will Call, Shop/Field, Outbound shipment)
• How are orders (once filled) to be marked

• Ispect prior to shipment to er he rect or dared in any a react to be
    may require repackaging.
  When pullir

      /henaling one in as dispose or seeked in packeria quantity, empty all the




                                                                                         11/21
                                                                    Part I!!: Ordering, Returns


                                       11. Parts Returns

 Customer Returns- Accepting parts returns from customers is an important part of our business. It
is important a few points are kept in mind while processing credits:

• Review the condition of the package the parts are being returned. Any broken packages, seals,
    or soiled packages should be brought to the attention of the Parts Manager.
• Verify the quantity, description, and condition of the parts being returned.
• Be cautious of "cores" being returned. It can be easy to mistake a core for a new part being
    returned.

• Know the parts return policy for the parts being returned. The return criteria will vary based
    on the vendor and type of parts.

Vendor Returns- Returns sent back to our vendors are handled very similar to filling an order for
a customer. The primary difference is there may be a need to remove big tags. A vendor return
is divided into two portions. One is to ship back all of a particular part number, and another will
be a partial shipment. It is important pull the return based on the direction from the Parts
Manager.




                                                                                             12/21
                                                                    Part IV: Inventory Counts


                                    12. Inventory Counts

Proper conducting of the regular scheduled cycle counts and end of year physical counts validates
the accuracy of the how well              manages it spare parts inventory.

Refer to the Inventory Count policy        _and refer any questions to the local Parts/Warehouse
Supervisor.

A part found while conducting counts should be noted and the part number, description, and
quantity given to the Parts Manager for additional research.




                                                                                          13/21
                                                                            Part V: Maintenance


                               13. Warehouse Housekeeping

Proper housekeeping of the warehouse area supports:
• A safe work environment




Take a look around the warehouse area and see if can identify examples of good and poor
housekeeping.



Daily Housekeeping Requirements:
• Floor and dock areas are swept and trash
    picked up and disposed
 • Cabinets and shelves are dusted
 • All trash cans are empted at end of shift. No
    trash will be left in the warehouse after
    hours.

• Floor areas will be clear of oil/liquid spots
    and spills.
• Hose press area is cleaned and excess hose
    in put back in the proper location after cach
    use.


Prevent Untidy Conditions:




    be removed from pallet once it has been cut. This will also avoid potential of causing an
    injury via being cut or tripping on the banding
    material.
• All tonnage is stored in a neat manner that is
    assigned/designed for that purpose. Broken and
    splintered pieces will be disposed of properly.
• Broken pallets are replaced and thrown away. This
    will avoid the potential of an injury due to the
    pallet collapsing.
• Overflow parts will not be stocked on the isle way
     floors. Overflow will be moved to an assigned
    area of the warehouse and marked accordingly.
• Fire hydrants, door passageways, and electrical
    junction boxes will be kept clear and accessible.




                                                                                           14/21
                                                                                  Part V: Maintenance


                          14. Vehicle and Equipment Maintenance

The treatment and maintenance of all warehouse equipment insures high productivity, lower
operating cost, and encourages a safe working environment. All employees will be expected to
operate all equipment in a manner that is respectful of others, and in a manner that will not
sacrifice the health of the equipment.

 •Speed or abuse of the equipment will not be tolerated
 • Daily inspections will be conducted, with the needed repairs noted scheduled based on thi
    severity of the repair need. If the repair that is needed is safety related, or will sacrifice the
    health of the machine, the unit should be tagged out and not utilized until the repair has been
    completed.
• Unsafe equipment will be reported to the supervisor immediately, and the appropriate action
    will be taken to correct the need.
 • Vehicles will be kept clean inside and out at all times
 • Prior to operating the vehicle a visual inspection will be completed and any noted damage
    will be reported to the supervisor.
• Vehicles should be filled if the tank is below ½full. This will insure quick response and
    respect to the next individual that will be using the vehicle.

 Each individual will be tasked trained to operate the various type of equipment that will be used
during the daily warchouse operations.




                                                                                                  15/21
                                                                             Part V: Maintenance


                                 15. Personal Improvement

We have reviewed a great deal of information that relates to properly performing the warehouse
responsibilities. One additional factor that will contribute to your success is your own personal
attitude toward your job responsibilities, fellow workers, customers, and toward the
accomplishments of the corporate goals.

• A good attitude is contagious to others around us. Our attitude provides the opportunity to
    develop relationships with our customers, and co-workers that will contribute to our success.
    Your attitude is yours to own and manage.
• Along with a positive attitude, the physical appearance you present also sends a message to
    those around you, and contributes to the relationship with those we work with on an
    individual basis. Your personal appearance should be neat and clean. Avoid wearing any
    item that could be hazardous if you work around machinery.
• One way to build success into your job performance is too continual grow your knowledge in
    your profession. Recognize changes in our business and assist in finding ways we can better
    perform our areas of responsibilities and our competitiveness in the market place.
• Let your supervisor know what your career goals are and develop a personal plan that will
    assist in developing the skill you need to accomplish your personal goals.




                                                                                            16/21
                                                                                  Part VI: Safety


                                    16. Warehouse Safety

• Warehouse Safety- Safety is everyone's responsibility. Each employee is expected to
    perform their duties and responsibilities in a safe manner. Attending weekly safety meeting,
    annual refresher training, and wearing of the proper personal protective equipment is an
    expectation.
• Common Warehouse Tools-Know how to safety operate all tools and equipment associated
    with proper warehousing.
• Proper Lifting- Serious injury can occur from improper lifting. It is important to follow the
    proper guidelines in bending, lifting, and twisting while lifting and move parts.
• Lift Truck Safety- Proper operating of all forklifts and other material handling equipment
    will include proper training in operating practices of the equipment.
• Improper use of hand tools is one of the largest contributors to injuries in the warehouse.
    Use caution when using box cutters and knifes.
• Hazardous Material Handling- Proper handling of the parts we stock that are classified
    hazardous material require special stocking, shipping, and handling practices. Each employee
    needs to be familiar with the Hazardous Material Safety Data sheets and the proper stocking
    practices.
• Hydraulic Hose building- Building of hydraulic hoses require specific training in the proper
    use of utilizing hose presses, hose saws, and stocking of the spare parts associated with
    hydraulic type parts.

Specific training will be provided in the above areas and all questions need to be addressed as
quickly as possible.




                                                                                            17/21
                                                                                  Part VI: Safety


                                  17. General Safety Rules

There are many job responsibilities that have been reviewed in the previously listed information,
but an additional focus on some general safety practices are listed below:

                    expects each employee to practice safe work habits in all tasks we perform.
• Any violation of safe work habits can create, or contribute to the employee, someone else, or
    property damage/injury.




     hazardous conditions and inefficiencies in our operations.
• Tooling, equipment, and materials used in our everyday jobs will be in good working order.
    Any damaged or broken items will be removed from operation to prevent the opportunity
    injury or damage.
• Proper personal safety equipment will be used based on the task to be performed. It is the
     supervisor's responsibility to provide the proper personal safety equipment for the job to be
    performed.




    lifting exceeds what should be expected based on the individual conditions.
• Employees must know the location, operation, and proper use emergency equipment and the
     proper practices based on the situation.




                                                                                             18/21
                                                                                     Attachment 1:




                               Spare Parts Cycle Count Guidelines
Purpose: To monitor the accuracy of the spare parts inventory in both the physical on hands and
dollar value, and identify areas for improvement in the management of the spare parts inventory.
Cycle count is not only a time to verify the physical on hand inventory, but to also verify that
proper warehousing practices and procedures are being maintained.

Count Schedule- The General Parts Manager is responsible to ensure each location is conducting
weekly cycle counts. The trending of the line items counts and adjusted, percent line items
adjusted, and dollar adjustments will be measured, monitored and corrective actions implemented
on a location by location basis.

Cycle Count Classification- The cycle classification will encompass that all high dollar items
and faster moving items (individually priced or accumulative valve that exceed $2,000 and/or
10% of the faster moving parts) will be counted every 90 days. Slower moving items will be
counted at least once per year.

Conducting Cycle Count- The proper conducting of cycle counts are critical in the proper
management of the spare parts inventory:
  • Prepare for the weekly cycle count. All stock put away and receipted, credit returns put
       on the shelf, and orders to be pulled must be completed to allow for an accurate count.
   • Receive the weekly cycle count report from the Parts Manager at the branch store.
   • Conduct the physical count, without viewing the computer on hands. Note the physical
       count on the count sheet. While doing the counts, view the warehouse area near the count
       area looking for areas needing improvement in proper warehousing practices. Examples
       of what to look for can be seen in the Warehouse Training Booklet. Note these concerns
       on the count sheet to be addressed after the counts are completed.
   • Enter the counts into the system based on the physical counts taken.

Conducting Recounts- Recount reports will list any item that does not match in physical on
hand and dollar amount.
   • Conduct recount for the listed discrepancies. When conducting recounts take extra care to
        identify the potential causes for the count being incorrect. This should include check the
       locations in and around the part being counted, looking for credits, stock orders, or orders
       that have not been processed.
   • Enter the recounts into the system based on the physical recount.


Entering Inventory Adjustments- Adjust inventory based on recounts. Select "Reports" and
then "final Report" and print. This report shows the differences of the plus and minus for each
item recounted. This list of items needs to be adjusted accordingly. Access work order no.
XCYCLE and the appropriate segment that corresponds with the assigned store number (17
California for example. Enter the item if shortage exist, and enter a (-) if an overage occurs.
All of the adjustments should be done on one document.


                                                                                              19/21
                                                                                       Attachment 1



Reviewing of Inventory Adjustments- It is important to review the line item and dollar
adjustment to identify possible trends and implement corrective action to better manage the spare
parts inventory.
   • The Parts Manager at each location (if there is not an assigned Parts Manager the
       Corporate Parts Manager is responsible) will review the inventory adjustments weekly
       and research the discrepancies of line items and dollar adjustments. The review will
       include reviewing stock receipt dates and quantities, parts return and credits, orders
        placed, package quantities, core credits, etc.
   • The Corporate Parts Manager will provide a monthly report showing the adjustments by
       location to each Store's assigned Parts Manager. The causes that have been identified will
       be reviewed and track for areas of improvement. The results of the count adjustments will
       be posted in the work areas as a key measurable.

Inventory Report Maintenance Practices- Performing regular inventory report maintenance
insures an environment that promotes inventory accuracy. The following reports support the
proper practice of managing the parts inventory:
   • Bin Maintenance Report - This report is used to verify the parts information system
       matches the physical information in the warehouse. The report shows the part number,
       description, and location of the entire warehouse in location sequence. The purpose is to
       match the report against the actual bin tag on the shelf. Note any discrepancies and return
       to Parts Manager for review and correction. The typical discrepancies will be:
              The part number is not on the report, and there is a bin tag (but no part). The bin
               tag should be removed.
           • The part number is on the report, and there is a bin tag. The report and bin match,
               so no additional action is necessary.
           • The part number is on the report, and there is not a bin tag. Verify if there are any
               items on stock order, or if a recent location change has been made, and determine
               if the bin location should be deleted or a bin tag put in place.
           • The part number has a bin tag, but is not on the report. Review if there has been a
              recently assigned new bin location since the report was run. If the bin tag matches
               the system no future action is necessary. If the system shows there is not assigned
              location, and there are no parts on order then remove the bin tag.

   • Deleted Record Report- This report prints at the time that stock orders are printed for
       review.The purpose of this report is to identify the line item locations that are being
       deleted due to a zero on-hand and insufficient history to justify stocking the part. The
       report is to be verified by checking the report to the actual bin location to verify there are
       no parts on the shelf. If there are no parts on the shelf the bin tag is to be removed. The
       employee that reviewed the report vs. the parts shelf will sign the report and maintain the
       report in a file. The file is to be maintained for the fiscal year. When checking the shelf
       and a part is located, count the part number quantity and provide the report to the Parts
       Manager who will research the part to determine the proper disposition of keeping or
       disposing of the part.




                                                                                               20/21
                                                                                     Attachment 1


   • Open Order Age Report- This report identifies what parts are on order and the age of
       the order. The purpose of keeping this report current is to identify if any part may have
       come in, have been put on the shelf and not receipted; and noting any potential parts
       shortages due to the supplier not being able to fill the stock order needs. This report
       should be reviewed monthly by the appropriate Parts Manager.

Corrective Action-
 An important element for continuous improvement is to identify areas that continue to arise,
identify the cause, and implement a corrective action to prevent the reoccurrence. The following
information is intended to provide a guide on reducing the reason for a recount.
    • Identifying common causes for discrepancies and determine if the cause is due to lack of
        training, poor warehousing practices, improper documentation, lack of timely processing
         of orders, receipting of stock orders and credits, or other causes that have created the
       inventory inaccuracy.
   • Any location that has three months of over 5% of the line items adjusted, and/or 1.5%
       (plus or minus) of the store's dollar value counted will have an onsite inventory review
       that will include the Corporate Parts Manager, Inventory Control Supervisor, and the
       assigned Parts Manager.
   • The purpose of the onsite review will be to determine the causes for high line item and/or
       dollar adjustments and implement corrective action. A monthly review with the specific
       parts department will be conducted with a documented corrective action plan
       implemented and followed.




                                                                                             21/21
